<head>
<title> PHASE </title>
</head>
<body>
PHASE
Phase correction of FT spectra

	Phase correction of a spectrum is a somewhat iterative procedure
	which involves the following steps:

	1) click on 'Phase / Transform' in the 'Gremlins' menu
	   to bring up the phase correction window if it is not open
	   already.

	2) The first step is to determine the central point of the 
	   interferogram which is to be transformed. This is done by 
	   reading the interferogram into the 'r' array with the 
	   following sequence of commands:

		open datain <filename> int
		read nnn
		plot

	   The file name must be the file name of the interferogram 
	   without file name extension. If the interferogram has many 
	   data points the 'r' array can only a small part of the 
	   interferogram. In that case it is best to estimate the
	   location of the center and read only the central section
	   of the interferogram after an 'set centerread' command.
	   The interferogram is then plotted and the exact position of 
           the central fringe can be determined. 
	   Set a red mouse marker (left) button in the plot at the
	   position of the interferogram center.

	3) Now click on the 'Fill in' button in the phase correction window
	   which will fill in file names and center point into the phase
	   correction form. All entries can be edited after clicking with
	   the mouse cursor on the entry field. The entry fields for 
	   center point and number of terms in the phase polynomial can
	   be varied by clicking on the arrow up and arrow down buttons
	   to the right of the entry fields.

	4) If the spectrum is not twosided click on the 'Symmetry' button
	   to change the symmetry to 'unbalanced'. Inversion of the 
	   interferogram is not required at that stage

	5) If the spectrum is not a line spectrum then click on the 
	   'Spectrum type' button to change the spectrum type to 
	   'continuous spectrum' (e.g. one from a standard lamp).

	5) click on the button 'Phase correct' which will calculate the
           phase function from the central part of the interferogram,
           plot the phase function or phase points and a low resolution
	   amplitude spectrum. At this stage it is possible to use the 
	   top row of buttons to move around in the low resolution spectrum. 
	   If the 'Phase' button is pressed the top row of buttons affects 
	   the phase plot instead of the spectrum. Therefore, to get a closer 
	   look at some phase points with the zomm buttons the 'Phase' 
	   button must be pressed first.

	   If the interferogram was from a continuum spectrum the following
	   item (6) does not apply. Go straight to (7).

	6) The low resolution spectrum should be used to determine a better
	   value for the signal / noise ratio in the spectrum and the 
	   discriminator level should be checked. If too few phase points
	   were picked up the discriminator level should be lowered. Both
	   discriminator level and signal / noise ratio are relative to
           the strongest line which has intensity 1 e.g. a discriminator
	   level of 0.2 means that the phase is calculated for lines 
	   which have 20% or more of the intensity of the strongest line
	   in the spectrum. All phase points must have valid phase - 
	   i.e. there must be no ghosts or points folded back from other 
	   aliases. If such points are present, they should be placed in a 
           box by marking the upper left and lower right corners with a 
	   red mouse marker, and then deleted from the fit using the plot
	   mode command <ctrl>+d. It is recommended to re-calculate the
           phase (press the 'Phase correction button) to check that these 
	   points have been successfully deleted and good phase points
	   are distributed evenly.

	   Marking bad phase points:

                |
	      --+--
                |   *
                  *    *                  <-- bad phase points
                          *
                                |
                              --+--       <-- mouse markers (left button)
                                |

	   The two mouse markers mark two diagonal corners of a box. All
	   phase points within the box will be marked as bad phase points
	   and written to the bad points file.
                              
	7) Check that the centre is correct. If the centre is wrong 
 	   (may be off by a couple of points) the phase will go through 
	   a 2 pi phase jump somewhere in the plot. Correct the center and
	   re-calculate the phase (alternatively the interferogram may
	   be inverted).

        8) When you are satisfied with the points to be used in
           determining the phase, specify a number of terms for the
           fitted polynomial and then check that all the points have
           been correctly fitted and that the observed-calculated phase
           is close to zero across the spectrum. Do this by typing
           'plot phase' again. The phase correction polynomial will now
	   be plotted together with the phase points and the 66% 
	   confidence interval for the phase fit. For a continuum spectrum
	   the phase function will be used for phase correction as
	   it is, without fitting a polynomial to it.

	9) Once the phase correction polynomial is calculated the
	   final spectrum may be calculated. Fill in the 'blue' parts
	   of the form specifiying how many points of the interferogram
	   should be skipped (if any), the number of points to be used
	   in the transform, the point range for apodization
	   (if not the 5% default will be used), the wavenumber range
	   in wavenumbers in the output spectrum and a file name for
	   the output file. It is advisable to calculate a complex
	   spectrum first and then inspect the imaginary part to see if
	   the phase correction was successful. Ghosts are also very
	   easily discovered in the complex spectrum because they will
	   often have large imaginary parts after phase correction.



